wav2cas v2 bugfix 2 - 2.0.0.2
Copyright (c) 2008 Knut Roll-Lund

Update history, new for this version
- bug fixed in memory management (not bad)
- improved robustness reading wav files
- bug fixed in reading highspeed system files
- wav save option (fresh 'perfect' wavs)

Sorry it took this long - this is my hobby so I work with it when I feel like
it and have some time.

wav2cas v2 is a tool for reading programs and data stored on cassette tape by
TRS-80 models I/III/4 and storing them in cas format for use with emulators.

Installation... just put it in any directory you like for example c:\Program
Files, then create a shortcut on your desktop (if you like). wav2cas can
also be set up as a program that can handle wav files (so you can right-click a
wav file and select wav2cas).

The cassette tape will have to be transferred to the pc first to a plain wav
file (PCM coded with no compression) using for example windows inbuilt Sound
Recorder and connecting a cassettedecks earphone or line-out to the pc's
line-in or microphone input. A compressed wav or mp3 file can be converted to
plain wav before use with wav2cas.

Samplerate should be 11025Hz or better, 8 bit or 16 bit - mono or stereo. If
the cassette player is stereo use stereo also on the pc. wav2cas will combine
the cannels to get the best possible result.

wav2cas v2 will read any recording that has a proper TRS-80 header. Because the
header is used for setting sensitivity etc. wav2cas v2 can't cope with
fragments (yet). It will read multiple files in a recording even with
different formats. Model I Level 1, Model I/III/4 level 2 (low) and Model
III/4 highspeed tapes.

Once you have a proper wav file it can be loaded in several ways. Plain old
command line, dropping a wav file on wav2cas' desktop icon, starting wav2cas
and pressing the open button (standard file open dialog) or dropping a wav
file on the already open wav2cas.

Sometimes wav2cas will use some time to process large wav's this is normal.
For example a half hour wav containing 50 programs will take some time to
process depending on how powerful your pc is.

Sometimes you will find that wav2cas is unable to find a header. This is
because the header is damaged in some way and a real TRS-80 would have similar
problems. Use the display and study the waveform maybe it is possible to
rerecord the wav with a little lower volume etc. Toggle the checkbox for level
zoom to off to see real level. Too loud might create excessive ringing making
real flanks impossible to detect.

Any problems please contact me mailto:kr-lund@online.no

Knut